Blog Post: OpenSearch automated build system is now live (#1015)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2022-10-24-public-jenkins.markdown

The build system is deployed using infrastructure as code that uses AWS CDK. The build infrastructure is completely reproducible and consumes [opensearch-ci](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci) repository as its source. The[readme.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci/blob/main/README.md) file in [opensearch-ci](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci) repository provides the instructions to reproduce this infrastructure. External contributors can contribute to the build ecosystem by raising the PR on [this](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci) GitHub repository for any future enhancements, bug fixes and new features. 

## Motivation

> Before now, setting up the test and build infrastructure was a tedious process that required a lot of manual intervention and development effort to make changes and updates. Also, the infrastructure used for building and releasing the artifacts was not reproducible, and teams were finding it hard to track the status of builds due to limited visibility into the build process. This created discrepancies between the development team in terms of building, testing, and debugging the artifact builds during every release. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before now, setting up the test and build infrastructure was a tedious process that required a lot of manual intervention and development effort in order to make changes and updates. Also, the infrastructure used for building and releasing the artifacts was not reproducible, and teams were finding it difficult to track the status of builds due to limited visibility into the build process. This created discrepancies between the development team in terms of building, testing, and debugging the artifact builds during every release. 
```

> The manual processes also added additional overhead for the development teams to create, own and maintain their own automation build process, mimicking our process. The new system automates all the manual steps involved in creating, managing, maintaining and monitoring the DevOps stack for OpenSearch distribution builds to improve reproducibility along with developer and release velocity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manual processes also required development teams to create, own, and maintain their own automation build process, mimicking our process. The new system automates all the manual steps involved in creating, managing, maintaining, and monitoring the DevOps stack for OpenSearch distribution builds in order to improve reproducibility and developer and release velocity.
```

> ### OpenSearch CI / CD infrastructure design:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### OpenSearch CI/CD infrastructure design
```

> ![Figure 1: Jenkins Infrastructure Overview]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/media/blog-images/2022-09-19-public-jenkins.markdown/jenkins.png){: .img-fluid }**Figure 1**: Jenkins Infrastructure Overview

Reviewer 2: Change this to the new dates I think?
@gaiksaya

Author: Will do! Thanks!

> ### Overview of the Jenkins workflow(s):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Overview of the Jenkins workflow(s)
```

> All the workflows are managed via source controlled code located in the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build/tree/main/jenkins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the workflows are managed through source-controlled code located in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build/tree/main/jenkins):
```

Reviewer: We should name the repository rather than just referring to "the" repository. Which one?

Author: The "Github repository" hyperlink is the repository

> * [Distribution-build-opensearch](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-build-opensearch/): The all-in-one pipeline to clone, build, assemble, store OpenSearch and its related plugin artifacts in one click. It currently supports LINUX tarball, Linux RPM artifacts. We are in the process of adding MacOS tarball, Windows Zip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Distribution-build-opensearch](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-build-opensearch/): The all-in-one pipeline used to clone, build, assemble, and store OpenSearch and its related plugin artifacts with one click. It currently supports LINUX tarball and Linux RPM artifacts. We are in the process of adding MacOS tarball and Windows Zip.
```

Author: Done

* [Distribution-build-opensearch-dashboards](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-build-opensearch-dashboards/): The all-in-one pipeline to clone, build, assemble, store OpenSearch Dashboards and its related plugin artifacts in one click. It currently supports LINUX tarball, Linux RPM artifacts. We are in the process of adding MacOS tarball, Windows zip.
* [Check-for-build](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/check-for-build/): This workflow will periodically check out latest changes/commits in opensearch-project repositories and trigger the above distribution-build workflows.

> * [Integ-test](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/integ-test/): The integration tests for OpenSearch plugins are triggered and run here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Integ-test](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/integ-test/): The integration tests for OpenSearch plugins are initiated and run here.
```

> * [Integ-test-opensearch-dashboards:](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/integ-test-opensearch-dashboards/) The integration tests for OpenSearch-Dashboards plugins are triggered and run here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Integ-test-opensearch-dashboards](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/integ-test-opensearch-dashboards/): The integration tests for OpenSearch-Dashboards plugins are initiated and run here.
```

Author: It's a typo. Will fix it.

> * [Distribution-promote-artifacts](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-promote-artifacts/): The one click workflow to pull, sign, and push OpenSearch/Dashboards related artifacts from staging to production, including Linux tarball, Linux RPM, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Distribution-promote-artifacts](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-promote-artifacts/): The one-click workflow used to pull, sign, and push OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards artifacts from staging to production, including Linux tarball and Linux RPM.
```

Author: It retains the intended meaning

* [Distribution-promote-yum-repos](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/distribution-promote-yum-repos/): Similar to above, but for YUM repository promotion specifically.
* [Docker-build](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-build/): The workflow to build both ci runner docker images as well as docker images for OpenSearch/Dashboards and others.
* [Docker-copy:](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-copy/) The workflow to copy docker images between different repositories, the foundation of docker-promotion workflow.

> * [Docker-promotion:](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-promotion/) The workflow to promote docker images from staging registry to both production docker hub and AWS ECR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Docker-promotion](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-promotion/): The workflow used to promote Docker images from the staging registry to both production Docker Hub and Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR).
```

Author: "the" is correct

> * [Whitesource-scan](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/whitesource-scan/): The workflow to trigger CVE scanning on a daily basis using whitesource/Mend toolchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Whitesource-scan](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/whitesource-scan/): The workflow used to trigger CVE scanning on a daily basis using the whitesource/Mend toolchain.
```

Author: "the" is correct

> * [Docker-copy](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-copy/): The workflow used to copy Docker images between different repositories and is the foundation of [Docker-promotion](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-promotion/) workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Docker-copy](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-copy/): The workflow used to copy Docker images between different repositories and the foundation of the [Docker-promotion](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/docker-promotion/) workflow.
```

> * [Gradle-check:](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/gradle-check/) The heavyweight gradle check workflow that serves the PR checks for OpenSearch repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Gradle-check](https://build.ci.opensearch.org/job/gradle-check/): The heavyweight Gradle check workflow that serves the PR checks for the OpenSearch repository.
```

Author: "the" is correct

## Benefits:

Manually executing the build, test, and release steps is a time-consuming process that adds a lot of manual overhead, human errors in executing, monitoring and reporting the outcome of each of the above steps. This is not sustainable or scalable for frequent builds (i.e. hourly, nightly builds). The enhanced end-to-end distribution generation system helps us to overcome these gaps by automating the steps to build, test and publish the distribution artifact on a regular cadence. The automation process not only surfaces the issues, gaps, blockers on time, but also helps us move faster by producing builds at a faster pace. This reduces the resource bottle neck as we have limited manual overhead in generating distribution builds. This process allows us to release the major, minor and patch versions quickly, frequently, and on time.

> With the build, test and release infrastructure being ready and public, the community can now access, view and contribute to the infrastructure as well as workflows that builds the OpenSearch and OpenSearch dashboards distributions. As a user with **_anonymous_** role, you can view all the available jobs, logs, packaged artifacts and gradle checks related to OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the build, test, and release infrastructure is public, the community can access, view, and contribute to the infrastructure as well as workflows that build the OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards distributions. As a user with **_anonymous_** role, you can view all the available jobs, logs, packaged artifacts, and Gradle checks related to OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards workflows.
```

> ## Wrapping It Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Wrapping it up
```

> Now that the build, test, and release infrastructure is public, the community can access, view, and contribute to the infrastructure as well as workflows that build the OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards distributions. As a user with **_anonymous_** role, you can view all the available jobs, logs, packaged artifacts, and Gradle checks related to OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the build, test, and release infrastructure is public, the community can access, view, and contribute to the infrastructure as well as workflows that build the OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards distributions. As a user with the **_anonymous_** role, you can view all the available jobs, logs, packaged artifacts, and Gradle checks related to OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards workflows.
```

> The primary goal of this project is to improve the reproducibility and transparency of the OpenSearch build infrastructure. The build, release, and test infrastructure used by the OpenSearch Project is easily reproduced by following the steps documented in the [readme.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci/blob/main/README.md) file which uses IaC to reproduce the infrastructure. Contributors can now contribute to this infrastructure by submitting their code in a pull request to the [opensearch-ci](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci) repository. The community can also contribute to the build, release, and test workflows deployed on this infrastructure by submitting their code in a pull request to the [opensearch-build](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build) repository. To learn more, check out the [Getting Started page](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci#getting-started). Additionally, if you find any issues or have questions, feel free to either create an [issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci/issues) on GitHub or ask a question on the [forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/build/12)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary goal of this project is to improve the reproducibility and transparency of the OpenSearch build infrastructure. The build, release, and test infrastructure used by the OpenSearch Project is easily reproduced by following the steps documented in the [readme.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci/blob/main/README.md) file, which uses IaC to reproduce the infrastructure. Contributors can now contribute to this infrastructure by submitting their code in a pull request to the [opensearch-ci](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci) repository. The community can also contribute to the build, release, and test workflows deployed on this infrastructure by submitting their code in a pull request to the [opensearch-build](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build) repository. To learn more, check out the [Getting Started page](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci#getting-started). Additionally, if you find any issues or have questions, feel free to either create an [issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-ci/issues) on GitHub or ask a question on the [forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/build/12)!
```
